Build Network Topology Table
============================

The **Build Network Topology Table** tool builds a table comprised of records for all 
stream reaches within an input stream network feature class. Each record includes 
the reach ID, the ID of the adjacent upstream reach, and unique codes for the TO 
and FROM nodes of the reach. The unique TO and FROM codes are generated by calculating 
the latitude and longitude in decimal degrees for each node location. For headwater 
stream reaches, the upstream ID is assigned a value of -99999. If there is a potential
topology error with an upstream reach, the upstream ID for that reach will be assigned
a value of -11111.

The resulting output table, which will be named *StreamNetwork*, can then serve
as an input for the **Find Network Errors Tool**, which can be used to find
topological errors in the stream network.

##Geoprocessing Environment
* We recommend that the Build Network Topology Table tool be run using 64-bit python geoprocessing.
* Disable Z and M values in the stream network shape field.

##Input Parameters
**Input Stream Network**

Stream network polyline feature class. The output network topology table will 
store a record for each reach within this network.

**Downstream Reach**

Object ID of the downstream reach (i.e. the outflow) in the stream network polyline 
feature class. This will be the first record in the output network topology table.

##Calculation Method
Processing steps (simplified):

1. Find and tag all reaches that are braids is a new field, *IsBraided*.
2. Select the downstream stream reach feature and start the main processing loop.
3. Select intersecting stream reaches.  If the reach has already been processed in the loop,
remove the previously iterated reach. Add the current and upstream reach to an array.
4. Plot beginning ("FROM") and ending ("TO") nodes for each stream reach.
5. Write records to the table.

##Outputs
**StreamNetworkTable**

The resulting network topology table.  This will be saved to the same file geodatabase
where the input stream network is stored.

**networkVrtx**

Point feature class representing beginning ("FROM") and ending ("TO") nodes for each
reach within the input stream network feature class.

##Troubleshooting and Potential Issues
Currently, as the tool loops upstream through each stream reach in the network,
any potential topology errors associated with the upstream reach are flagged
by adding a value of -11111 to the UpstreamID field for said reach.  This code
can then be subsequently used by the Find Network Errors tool to identify potential
topology errors. These errors can include:

* stream reaches with the same beginning node, but no upstream reach.
* branches where either the beginning or ending node is not coincident with 
a node from the adjoining reach.